# How I Built Ranger, Chapter 1: Hardware Design
*This is a chapter within a series on how I built a long-range, web-connected, Azure-integrated, 3D-printed Rover with an Onboard Camera. To read more about this series, click [here]().*

My previous rover design, [PYPER](https://github.com/TimHanewich/PYPER) was my first foray into vehicle design and was an excellent example of the minimal mechanisms required in a rover (i. steering mechanism, drivetrain). With the functionality requirements of the new rover (covered in last chapter), *Ranger* would have to be significantly bigger than *PYPER*.

## Electrical Components
Firstly, many of the electrical components used in *PYPER* would also be used in *Ranger*, including the following:

- A **Raspberry Pi Zero W** will be used as the primary onboard computer controlling Ranger. Unlike my previous design, *PYPER*, a simple microcontroller like the Raspberry Pi Pico would not be sufficient here - due to the desire for image capturing and processing, a full Linux OS would be necessary to interface with a USB webcam.
- A **TT Motor** will be used to power the drivetrain. This is an inexpensive, low-power DC motor with an attached speed reducing gearbox. The motor operates between 3-6V, making it easy to power on the standard 5V of the other onboard components.
- A **SG-90 Servo** will be used as the steering mechanism. An SG-90 is a very low-cost, low-power servo motor that is perfect for controlling the steering angle of the front wheels, effectively steering the vehicle.
- A **Logitech C270** will serve as an onboard webcam used to capture imagery. The C270 is a very inexpensive webcam that will interface with the Raspberry Pi Pico W through a USB adapter.
- A **Raspberry Pi Pico** will also be onboard *Ranger*, serving a single purpose: detecting and reporting the voltage of the battery pack. It will be further discussed in a future chapter, but a voltage divider will be used to detect the voltage of the onboard battery pack. Because the Raspberry Pi Zero W does not have any analog-to-digital pins, it is incapable of detecting floating voltage on any of its *digital only* pins. The Raspberry Pi Pico has several analog-to-digital pins. The Pico will be used to read the analog voltage from the voltage divider and will digitally report this to the Raspberry Pi Zero W continuously through a serial connection (UART).
- A **4S Lithium-Polymer** battery will be onboard and will serve as the power source for all onboard electric components. A 4S battery (4 cells in a series) is normally used for high-performance scenarios, but will not be here. Instead, the voltage of the battery will be converted to a stable 5V source for the rest of the onboard components.
- A **LM2596 DC-DC Buck Converter** will be onboard and will be used to convert the raw voltage of the battery (which will be well over 5 volts) to a regulated 5 volts. This 5V output is critical as this is the voltage that all other onboard electrical components operates at.

## 3D Design
As mentioned previously, Ranger will be entirely 3D-printed. While my previous design, *PYPER*, had a body that was small enough to fit on the 200x200 print bed of my Ender 3, *Ranger* will need to be larger to accomodate all of the onboard components.

- Many of design aspects borrowed from PYPER
- CHallenge: Has to be bigger to fit more stuff. Only a 200x200 printer.
- Components used:
    - TT Motor @ 5V
    - SG-90 Servo
    - Logitech C270
    - Raspberry Pi Zero W
- 3D design:
    - Steering system
        - Tye rode
        - Bearings within wheels
        - Thread locker to prevent nut from slipping
    - Drive system
        - TT Motor mount
        - Drive axle mating to shaft
        - 608 bearing holders
        - Inner diameter of 608 bearing is too wide for 5mm shaft, so small "adapter" I made
        - Shaft "shoe" ends in hexagonal shape and mounts a wheel.
    - Webcam platform
    - This will leave space on the body to put holes into where individual components can be screwed in securely.
